---
layout: post
description: The voice is a human gift; it should be cherished and used, to utter fully human speech as possible. - Margaret Atwood
author: Mounsif Chetitah
picture: voice-assistance.jpeg
title: Voice Assistance
---

## Siri
Developed by Apple, Siri is a voice assistant that is available on Apple devices such as the iPhone, iPad, and Mac.

Siri is a virtual assistant developed by Apple that uses artificial intelligence (AI) and natural language processing (NLP) to understand and respond to voice commands. When you use Siri, your voice input is first sent to Apple's servers, where it is analyzed and processed by Siri's AI and NLP algorithms. These algorithms parse the words and meanings in your input to determine what you are asking and how to respond.

Once Siri has processed your request, it sends a response back to your device. This response may be in the form of text, or it may be synthesized speech that is generated by Siri's text-to-speech (TTS) system.

Siri is designed to be able to understand and respond to a wide range of voice commands, including requests for information, requests to perform tasks, and requests to interact with other apps or services. For example, you can ask Siri to set a reminder, play a song, or send a message, and it will use the appropriate app or service to fulfill your request.

## Alexa
Developed by Amazon, Alexa is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices, including the Amazon Echo smart speaker.

## Google Assistant
Developed by Google, Google Assistant is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices, including the Google Home smart speaker.

## Cortana
Developed by Microsoft, Cortana is a voice assistant that is available on Windows devices and the Xbox gaming console.

## Bixby
Developed by Samsung, Bixby is a voice assistant that is available on Samsung devices.
Hound: Developed by SoundHound, Hound is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices.

## Viv
Developed by Viv Labs, Viv is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices.

## Mycroft
Developed by Mycroft AI, Mycroft is an open-source voice assistant that is available on a range of devices.

## Dragon Go!
Developed by Nuance Communications, Dragon Go! is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices.

## Robin
Developed by Artificially Intelligent, Robin is a voice assistant that is available on a range of devices.